The game is loosely based on the paper mario style combat system, as well as inspired by many other things, like Avatar: The Last Airbender's martial-arts-based magic system, Pathfinder's action economy system, Pokemon's move-priority and speed system, and the setting is based in Bronze Age Rome in the Coliseum. You're a gladiator fighting in a series of tournaments, and your progression is based on the accumulation of new techniques, and improving your stats.

You can gain Boons which allow you to do something during combat that would normally be illegal (acquiring a temporary weapon, getting a temporary helper combatant, taking a break and healing, using some drugs or eating food (using an item basically), getting a free hit on the enemy, getting to reset your positions to the start of the fight, etc.). These are effectively one-time use "items" that you can call on at any point during the battle. You gain these by fulfilling certain randomized requirements during battles. 
There are two fighting modes: Short and Wide. This is grappling and not grappling, respectively; so when someone grabs the other person the game goes into Short mode, and when someone escapes the grapple the mode returns to Wide mode. Some moves can only be used in one of the two modes. Many moves have a chance to go Wide or Short, and you can specialize in fighting Wide or fighting Short, which gives access to different moves and a different playstyle. Short moves are usually more deadly, while Wide moves are more defensive. 
STORY
    You are a savant with a gift for combat tactics and judging your opponent's abilities. You are a slave.

    Captive and forced to compete in a series of increasingly brutal gladatorial challenges, you fight to survive.

    While fighting your way up the ranks in the Coliseum, you are ambushed by a rival team outside of the ring. In this fight, there are no rules, and the loser will die.

    Surviving to the top ranks, you begin your career as a top-tier entertainer, fighting in several ridiculous scenarios for the amusement of the rich onlookers. 

    Your career is cut short when a rich businessman begins interfering and making the challenges very difficult. This comes to a head with a direct confrontation with the businessman outside of the ring.

    This has the feel of a scripted loss, because it's very difficult, and he says that if you fight back, he will end you (and he will).

    If you take the loss, he captures you and brings you far away to another land. This is the Bad Ending.

    If you defeat him in combat, you are ended by his partners, but you go on to become a Legend of the Coliseum, and a martyr for the rights of slaves, leading to a revolution. This is the Good Ending.
	
	
	
	
MAX TECHS per level: 10
	max combat techs: 9
	1-3 passive techs per level
	
	
STANCE
	Depending on which element the technique you last used was, you gain the benefits and drawbacks of that stance:
		Fire
			Hit +5%
			Water techniques do +1 damage to you
		Earth
			Short EVA +5%
			Fire techniques do +1 damage to you
		Air
			SPD +1
			Earth techniques do +1 damage to you
		Water
			Wide EVA +5%
			Air techniques do +1 damage to you




You can gain Boons which allow you to do something during combat that would normally be illegal (acquiring a temporary weapon, getting a temporary helper combatant, taking a break and healing, using some drugs or eating food (using an item basically), getting a free hit on the enemy, getting to reset your positions to the start of the fight, etc.). These are effectively one-time use "items" that you can call on at any point during the battle. You gain these by fulfilling certain randomized requirements during battles.



Combat plays out like this.
	Both sides select everything they want to do for the round.
	Then the round executes, and is resolved. The Priority stat of techniques, and the speed of the combatants will be factored into determining which moves are executed in which order. Each technique is resolved one after another in a queue. Boons have the highest priority of all possible actions.
	---- Attacks can be blocked with good timing, like Paper Mario. -----
								(This could be problematic)
	The next round begins.
	
	


	Actions you can take on your turn:
		
		Attack - 1 NRG
			Priority = 0
			Costs 0 SP
			50% to-hit
			1 damage
			No element associated (neutral)
			
		Technique
			Open list of known techs and choose one to use
	
		Study - 1 NRG
			Priority = 0
			Using your brilliant deductive reasoning, you gain vital knowledge about your opponent from their fighting style, mannerisms, their posture, accent, hygiene, etc. Anything to get an edge.
			Learn some of your opponent's stats and techniques. You can learn:
				HP and HP max
				SP and SP max
				Accuracy
				Evasion
				Speed
				Damage
				Defense
			You cannot learn what Techniques they use by Studying during battle, the only way to know is to hear about it or see them perform the tech.
			IDEA: The first time you use this action in a battle or when you still have stats to learn, you learn the above stats. After you've learned them, subsequent uses of the Study action cost 0 NRG and allow you to review the stats of your opponent, since not all of these stats are going to be shown on the screen at all times, right?
			
		Claim Boon - 1 NRG
			Priority = 3
		
		Retrieve Weapon (if you are disarmed) - 1 NRG
			Priority = -2
			Chance to succeed: 50 + (Skill*2)% if Combat is Short, 100% if Wide.
			
		Rest - 3 NRG
			Priority = -9
			Restore 3 SP; if you are attacked during this turn, restore only 1 SP.
			
		Suspend (save game)
			Priority = 9
			Saves current game, Brings you to main menu
		
		Forfeit
			Priority = 3
			Asks if you're sure, then forfeits the match -- you lose gold for the fight as with failure, and you do not level up. This is a minor setback but it's far better than being defeated, because if you are defeated, you lose gold, fall back a level, AND receive a permanent injury. You do not lose known skills, skill points, or stats, except for those caused by the injury.
			Optionally, load game but you are encouraged to attempt to continue the game after such setbacks (although in harder difficulty settings this may not be feasible)
			Achievements? Achievement for beating game with 0 losses. One for beating game with >=5 losses.
		
		
	Knowledge you have of your opponent before the fight:
		Name
		Favored weapon
		Possibly some or all of the techniques that they use by name, but more generally...
		Which styles of combat they typically use 
			e.g. "they run Short and use aggressive Fire and Water tech" or "they fight Wide using defensive Air techniques"
		If you did research on your opponent before the fight, you may learn one or more of your opponent's stats:
				HP and HP max
				SP and SP max
				Accuracy
				Evasion
				Defense
				Damage
				Speed
			- Once you learn this information from your opponent you never lose it and can see it update during the fight. 
			- You can learn info by researching before a fight just by asking people about the combatant. Doing so may require you to give something in return, however.
				You can give info you learn to other combatants to buy more info, but doing so may make them stronger and make them into tougher combatants if you have to fight them in the ring eventually.
			- Another way to learn info about a combatant is to watch them fight. This can be a great way to see their strategy in action before having to face it yourself. This gives you all the info about your opponent.
		
	Knowledge you have of your opponent at start of fight:
		Weapon equipped (& whether it's their favored weapon)
		Everything that you knew before the fight (listed above)
		
	Knowledge you gain during the fight:
		Studying can teach you everything about the opponent with just 2 NRG.
		But if you just fight without Studying you will still gain knowledge.
			When you strike your opponent, you automatically learn how much HP, Defense and Evasion they have.
			When you are struck by your opponent, you learn their SP, Accuracy, Damage, and Speed, as well as the 
			
		



There are two modes of combat: Short (grappling), and Wide (non-grappling combat)

Techniques fall under one of two of the above categories; some techniques can be used in either mode of combat, but most can only be used in their respective category.


Elemental combat

Earth
Water
Fire
Air

Fire is harmed by Water, strenthed by Air, defeats Earth
Air is harmed by Earth, strengthed by Fire, defeats Water
Water is harmed by Air, strengthed by Earth, defeats Fire
Earth is harmed by Fire, strengthed by Water, defeats Air


Fire -> Earth -> Air -> Water -> (Fire)

	You can gain one (1) extra damage per turn from exploiting elemental weaknesses.
		Your first attack of the turn that has elemental advantage gains +1 Dmg and +10 to-hit. (If you miss this attack, you've lost this advantage)
			The implications of this are that you may decide, for example, to use an elemental advantage with your first move of the turn, and then switch to using a different element for a subsequent move. This will change your most recently used element, hence changing your style and your elemental weakness potentially multiple times per turn in order to confuse your opponent.
		To get elemental advantage, use an attack technique with the element that defeats the element your opponent used in their last move. This may require strategic planning to figure out what your opponent might do, if your opponent uses multiple elements.
	

Status effects:

	Fire techniques can cause _Burning_ effect.
		Opponent takes 1 (piercing) dmg per turn for the duration
		
	Earth techniques can cause _Stunned_ effect.
		25% chance that any given action will fail for the duration. 
		
	Air techniques can cause _Hypoxia_ (Hypoxic) effect.
		Opponent has -10 to HIT for the duration
		Opponent has -10 to EVA for the duration
		
	Water techniques can cause _Softened_ effect.
		Opponent has -1 to DFN for the duration
		Opponent has -1 to SPD for the duration
	
	The duration does not count down like a typical turn counter. Instead, each action attempted reduces the duration for all statuses by 1, so taking multiple actions per turn can reduce the duration of the effect significantly compared to taking a single action per turn.
		
	Statuses are not mutually exclusive. You can be Cold and Burning at the same time (that would suck). If a status is applied to a target that already is affected by that status, the status durations stack. There is no limit to how high the duration stack can get.
	
	It is also possible, although rare, for an element to cause a status effect outside its normal effects for that element. For instance:
		Frostbite - Water: Burn
		Drill - Earth: Soften
		Compression Bomb - Air: Stun
		Slow Burn - Fire: Hypoxia


Fire
	Flame
	Lightning
	Explosion
	Heat

Earth
	Wood
	Dirt
	Metal
	Sand

Air
	Wind
	Sound
	Flying
	Pressure

Water
	Water
	Blood
	Ice
	Cold



Weapon loadout affects stats, as well as what techniques are available to you in the battle (some techniques are only available with certain weapons).
	
	OUT OF DATE STAT DATA
	
Unarmed
	No bonus or penalty.
	
	Javelin & Shield
		speed +2
		to-hit +5
		evasion +10
		defense +1
		
	Hammer & Shield
		evasion +5
		damage +1
		pierce +1
		
	Sword & Dagger
		speed +1
		short to-hit +10
		evasion +8
		short damage +1
		
	Axe & Shield
		short speed +2
		short to-hit +5
		evasion +6
		damage +1
		
	Whip & Rope
		wide speed +1
		wide to-hit +5
		evasion +2
		defense -1
		short damage +2
		
	Chakram
		short speed +3
		short to-hit +6
		evasion +10
		wide Damage +1
		
	Spear
		wide speed +2
		wide to-hit +10
		evasion +10
		wide damage +1
		
	Pole
		wide speed +4
		short to-hit -10
		evasion +4
		defense +1
		wide damage +1
		
	Net
		wide speed +3
		wide to-hit +15
		evasion +4
		defense -1
		wide damage +1
		
	Sling
		wide speed +5
		wide to-hit +5
		evasion +2
		defense -1
		wide damage +2
	


Bow & Arrow (temporary weapon granted from Boons)
	Wide to-hit: +10%
	Wide Dmg +2

Sword & Kris (temporary weapon granted from Boons)
	Short to-hit: +10%
	Evasion: +5%
	Short Dmg +2
	

Disarming
	When disarmed, you go into Unarmed weapon fighting, and lose your benefits of the weapon you had. You can retrieve your weapon as an action that takes 1 NRG.




Primary Attributes
	Body
		Default: 10
	Spirit
		Default: 10
	Skill (required to learn techniques)
		Default: 3
	

Derived Attributes
	Accuracy / to-hit  (this can be negative)
		Default: 0
	Evasion  (this can be negative)
		Default: 5
	Defense  (this can be negative)
		Default: 0
	Damage  (this can be negative)
		Default: 0
	Speed  (this can be negative)
		Higher speed player attacks first when both combatants use equal priority techniques in one turn. Does NOT increase priority of attacks!
		Default: 0
	
	Energy
		Each player has 3 Energy that they can use each turn. Techniques cost a certain amount of energy, and if you don't have enough, you can't use that technique until next turn. If you do not use your Energy, at the end of your turn, you lose it.

	SP
		Spirit Points are required to use techniques, but it does not restore until the end of the round, or until you use some Boon to restore it.
	HP
		Health Points -- you die when they reach 0.


Character Generation
	Choose a favored element
		You start with 3 Level 1 moves of your choosing, in the element of your choosing. This is your primary element, and Skill requirements for techniques in this element are reduced by 2. Your bane element is the one to the left of your element on the wheel (the one that defeats your element); all Skill requirements for this element are increased by 2.
	Choose a favored weapon
		You choose a favorite weapon, and you have +5% to-hit with that weapon.
	Choose a stat to permanently boost
		Body 		+3
		Spirit 		+3
		Skill 		+3
		To-hit 		+5%
		Evasion 	+5%

Progression
	You gain random Boon(s) after each battle for fulfilling the randomized Boon requirements.
	You start at Level 1. Level is the same thing as the in-game tracker for your status as a fighter.
	Leveling up is done after every victory. You can choose to increase one of the following stats:
		Body + 1
		Spirit + 1
		Skill + 1
	You also get +1 Tech point that you can use to buy a new technique.
		Techniques cost the amount of Tech points equal to the Level of the technique.
	* At level 5, you can choose an extra favorite weapon, gain access to Level 2 techniques, and gain access to a new chosen Element and its tech tree.
		The extra favorite weapon grants you the same bonus to accuracy as your primary weapon.
	* At level 10, you gain access to Level 3 techniques, and gain access to a new chosen Element and its tech tree. You can also choose to get a permanent boost to a secondary attribute:
		Short Accuracy +5%
		Wide Accuracy +5%
		Evasion +5%
		Fire Resistance +10% 
			(Evasion +10% when attacked with Fire element, and chance to receive Burning status effect is reduced by half rounded down, so e.g. a 33% chance would become 16%.)
		Earth Resistance +10%
		Water Resistance +10%
		Air Resistance +10%
	* At level 15, you gain access to Level 4 techniques, and gain access to a new chosen Element and its tech tree. You have become adept in your chosen style of combat, and can choose to get a permanent boost to a secondary attribute:
		Wide Speed +1
		Short Speed +1
	* At level 20, you have mastered your style of combat, and can get a permanent boost to a secondary attribute:
		Wide Dmg +1
		Short Dmg +1
		Def +1
	* At level 25, you have mastered the elements, and can combine two elements into one attack, gaining access to signature level 5 techniques. Only 1 style may be selected and one of the elements in the style chosen must be your favored element. You will gain access to 1 Wide and 1 Short L5 techniques combining the elements from the chosen style. This is a unique set of moves that only your character knows, and that you create with the help of your coach.
		Air + Fire: Inferno Style
		Air + Earth: Poison Style
		Air + Water: Blizzard Style
		Fire + Earth: Volcano Style
		Fire + Water: Boil Style
		Earth + Water: Wood Style
	* At level 30, you have 
	
	
Failure and Game Over state
	If you lose a battle, you become unable to fight due to trauma-induced physical handicap, and the game is over (load a save or, in hardcore mode, start over with a new character).






MENU

	Maximum list size: 9

		1. Continue
			(rest if no Attack chosen)
		2. Attack
		3. Technique
			1. Water
				1. Level 1, ...
					(learned level 1 water techniques)
			2. Air
			3. Earth
			4. Fire
		4. Study
		5. Claim Boon
			(list of boons you have)
		6. Taunt
		7. Retrieve Weapon (if you are disarmed, else disabled)
		8. Suspend Match (save game)
		9. Forfeit
			("Forfeit" changes to "Are you sure?"			
			1. Yes
			2. No
		
		
	
90
5

80
10

x + (100-x)/2




Enemies
		Lv 1 Amber, Wide Fire, Sling
			HP 10
			SP 24
			Techs:
				Firebolt
				Burning Touch
			Tactics:
				Wide: use 3x Firebolt
				Short: use 3x Burning Touch
				Forfeit at <=2 HP
			Hint:
				She's weak in Short because of her weapon of choice. She has low HP, so get in quick and finish her off before she pelts you to death with her stones.
			Alt. variation (if player chooses Earth element):
				Water: Bubble x3 Wide and Short
				(this is to avoid the first encounter having an elemental advantage)
				
		Lv 2 Thomas, Short Earth, Axe & Shield
			HP 16
			SP 16
			Techs:
				Grind
				Rockslide
				Drill
				Harden
			Tactics:
				If Hardened:
					Wide: Rock Throw, Rockslide
					Short: Drill, Grind
				
				Wide: Harden, Rockslide
				Short: Drill, Grind
				
		Lv 3 Elba, Agile Water, Pole
			HP 10
			SP 24
			Techs:
				Bubble
				Watergun
				Slippery Skin
				Hailstorm
				Adhesion
				Wavecrash
			Tactics:
				If we don't have Slippery Skin status:
					Wide: Slippery Skin, Wavecrash
					Short: Slippery Skin, Bubble, Bubble
				Random:
					Wide: 
						Watergun, Bubble, Bubble
						Hailstorm, Bubble, Bubble
						Bubble, Bubble, Bubble
					Short:
						Adhesion, Bubble, Bubble
						Watergun, Watergun, Watergun
						Bubble, Bubble, Bubble
						
		Lv 4 Peter, Short Fire, Whip & Rope
			HP 15
			SP 18
			Techs:
				Firebolt
				Devil's Tongue
				Fire Eater
				Rocket Punch
				Singe
			Tactics:
				If opponent has >=2 Dfn:
					Wide: Rocket Punch, Devil's Tongue
					Short: 
						If target Burning <= 2: Singe and Ignition
						else use Fire Eater
				If wide, use Devil's Tongue and 2x Firebolt
				Else use Fire Eater
				Low SP: Attack
				Forfeit at <=3 HP
		
	Lv 5
		Orson, Wide Air+Water, Chakram
			Intelligence: 2
			HP 16
			SP 18
				Breath of Wind
				Pressure Bolt
				Compression Wave
				@Lv2: Pillow of Winds
				@Lv3: Double Image
				@Lv4: Gust Punch
				
		Lv 6 Kira, Short Fire+Earth




















TODO:
	GUI
		action stack
		stats
		HP bar
	right click to see More Info
		see detailed description of techniques, etc.
	slow down action resolution
	add effects to actions, animations (simple color changes, projectile launching, screen shaking etc.)
	30 unique enemies (not necessarily unique sprites)
	armor: 
		start arm brace / shoulder pad (+5 EVA); at level 10 you get partial leg armor (+5 EVA), at level 15 you get full leg armor (+5 EVA), at level 20 you get a helmet if you choose it (-5 EVA; +1 DFN)
		* Arm and leg armor raises EVA; helmets and breastplates lower EVA but raise DFN.
			+5 EVA for each arm / leg that is armored
			Helmet: -5 EVA, +1 DFN
			Full helmet: -5 ACC, +1 DFN, Res Short -5, Res Wide -5
			Breastplate: -5 EVA, +1 DFN, Res Short -5
		